note: for page numbers I’ll be using the PDF that I read most of the book from.
Isaiah Wallerstedt
Mr. Benjamin Roger Moberg
Elements of Literature
2023-12-xx
Title
	In Dimaline’s The Marrow Thieves, Frenchie embarks on a journey through a harsh, post-climate change[,] world, seeking refuge from the marrow harvesters who extract indigenous bone marrow for its dream-inducing properties. Amidst the bleakness and brutality, Frenchie encounters a number of people who teach him valuable lessons, which shape his understanding of his identity as an indigenous person. Two characters who positively impact Frenchie are Miigwans (“Miig”) and Isaac (“Isaac”).
	The first character who positively impacts Frenchie is Miig. Miig teaches Frenchie the value of storytelling. This is exemplified in a few quotes, but this one in particular: “Isaac didn't have grandparents who'd told residential school stories like campfire tales to scare you into acting right, stories about men and women who promised themselves to God only and then took whatever they wanted from the children, especially at night. Stories about a book that was like a vacuum, used to suck the language right out of your lungs. And I didn't have time to share them, not now” (Dimaline 96-97). This quote shows that Miig understands the value of storytelling (even though he isn’t actively telling one in this quote).
	The second character who positively impacts Frenchie is Isaac. Isaac teaches Frenchie the value of unconditional love. This is shown when Frenchie says about him, “ I watched it in the steps that pulled Isaac, the man who dreamed in Cree, home to his love. The love who'd carried him against the rib and breath and hurt of his chest as ceremony in a glass vial” (Dimaline 203). This shows that Frenchie understands Isaac’s unconditional love.
	Frenchie’s relationships with Miig and Isaac tech him important lessons about storytelling, love, and identity, guiding him through his coming-of-age journey. Empowered by Miig and Isaac’s guidance (among many others’), Frenchie confidently embraces his identity and charts his own course in a world on the edge. As he steps into adulthood, Frenchie follows their wisdom, thus ensuring that their legacies live on despite the challenges ahead.
